Everyone is talking about how you can
find yourself. But why is nobody talking
about how you lost yourself in the first
place? You were not born lost. And any
solution given to you on how to find
yourself without understanding why you
even lost yourself in the first place is
like a bandage on a still bleeding
wound. It won't help. Hi guys, welcome
back to my channel. My name is Michaela
and today I want to talk about how women
are actually losing themselves without
even knowing and what you can do to
never lose yourself again with
understanding why you lost yourself.
Let's get into this. First of all, I
want you to understand that you never
truly lost yourself. You might have
forgotten who you truly are, forgotten
how to listen to your soul, but you are
still you. You have not lost yourself,
and you don't need to go somewhere to
find yourself. And with understanding
how you lost yourself or how you lost
that connection to yourself, how you
have forgotten who you truly are, you
can actually find your way back home
very easily. And you can also prevent to
not make this happen again. The first
thing how women lose themselves or
forget who they are is when they are
neglecting their bodies and their needs.
When you are saying, "I'm just tired."
When you're actually feeling emotionally
drained and exhausted, that's a way to
neglect yourself. That's a way to say,
"Hey, I am not important. My feelings
are not important. I brush it off as I'm
just tired." And believe it or not, you
are not the only one who is doing that.
So many women, including me in my past
are saying constantly, I'm just tired.
And that's maybe what we truly believe
in that moment because we have learned
from society that we are being kind of
rewarded
with suppressing our emotional needs. We
are doing that because admitting that we
are emotionally not feeling okay feels
like there is something wrong with us.
So we learn as women to suppress our
emotional needs. But this is such a big
part of us. So while doing that and
while thinking that's normal because men
are doing that and because that's
somehow expected of us, people are
expecting from us to suppress our
emotions. People are telling us that our
emotional needs are too much. We are
learning that suppressing our emotions,
suppressing how we emotionally feel is
normal, is okay, is actually something
good. But let me tell you, it's not. You
are disconnecting yourself from yourself
with saying, "I'm just tired." While you
are being emotionally disconnected,
while you are being emotionally drained,
exhausted. And what you can do is to ask
yourself, do I actually feel tired or is
it something else? I nurture what I
feel. I ask myself, hey, what do you
actually feel? what do you actually need
right now? And then I'm following to do
that. When, as I said, I feel
emotionally drained, I do something that
makes me emotionally recharged. The next
thing is when you accept the bare
minimum and you are calling it love. To
be honest, the bare minimum can never be
love. The bare minimum is only comfort.
When you're with someone that doesn't
give you what you actually need, what
you actually want, then you are with
that person because of comfort or fear
of being alone, but you cannot be with
someone out of love when you are
actually not getting what you need. If
you are with someone that doesn't give
you what you need, you're disrespecting
yourself over and over again and you're
not loving yourself. And when you're not
loving yourself, you can also not love
another person. So what you're doing is
not out of love, is not out of pity, is
not out of empathy. It's simply out of
your fear. And your fear is coming from
your ego. And your ego doesn't really
care about who you are in your soul, who
you are as a person. All your ego is
caring about is to protect itself. Your
ego, you have to imagine, is like
another version of you that wants to
protect you sometimes, but it's more
about protecting itself. So if you have
your ego as that version of yourself,
let's say is an version of you that
looks really old, drained, and ugly. And
this version doesn't feel good in
itself. This version wants to survive.
And this version does everything
possible to survive. And once you do
something that makes your ego feel
uncomfortable, that makes your ego feel
like, "Oh, this is unknown. In that
unknown, I don't know if I can survive."
Your ego doesn't want to go there. So
your ego wants to protect you from the
unknown but the unknown is not something
bad. Now let's say you are in a
relationship in a love relationship and
you are being actually deeply unhappy
because you're accepting the bare
minimum but your ego feels good because
it's known you are already there since
years. Your ego feels comfortable here
because it gets some satisfaction from
being with someone. It gets some
attention. Your ego gets something that
it makes it survive. Here let's say now
you are thinking to break up with this
person because you are accepting the
bare minimum and you are having that
feeling
of this is not really what I want. This
doesn't really do me good. Your ego,
this old ugly version of you is starting
to get angry. Your ego is starting to
feel like, "Oh, there is something
coming where I don't know what it is.
Maybe I cannot survive here. Maybe we
will be alone. Maybe we will never find
someone else. Maybe we are not good
enough for someone else. Oh, maybe we
cannot survive in that world. Our ego
cannot survive without that validation
from another person on our side. So what
your ego does is it makes you feel
scared. It creates fear in you and this
fear is masking it up as love. You say
okay no I'm in love with this person. I
am deeply in love with this person with
a person that is giving me the bare
minimum or even less because I am in
fear of being alone. My ego is in fear
of not surviving. What you can do is to
redefine what love actually means for
you. Sit down, write down, think about
it. What is love for you? Is love really
suffering? Does love mean for you to be
in a situation where you are not happy?
Where you have to beg for the bare
minimum? Believe me honey, love is not
about begging. When you are with the
right person, you don't need to beg for
anything, for anything. Because the
right person will give you with
happiness, with love what you need. And
whatever you need is your bare minimum.
Whatever you need is your bare minimum.
If you
need a person that has 247 availability
for you, that's your bare minimum. If
you need someone that is constantly
telling you, I love you, that's your
bare minimum. If you need someone that
is gifting you every day, that's your
bare minimum. Whatever you need is your
bare minimum. And whoever says that's
too much, you're just asking the wrong
person. The next habit you are doing to
lose the connection with yourself
without even noticing is when you are
laughing about something that actually
hurts you. It seems so innocent. It
seems so normal to laugh about something
that hurts you because I don't want to
make it a big deal. I don't want to be a
drama queen. Right? If it hurts you, it
hurts you. You are not being a drama
queen for expressing how you feel. If it
hurts you when someone says to you, "You
look tired today. You look like you
didn't sleep a lot today." That's
something that hurts you. You don't need
to laugh about this. When someone says,
"Oh, the way you walk looks funny." When
someone makes a joke about this and it
hurts you, that's something that hurts
you and you can say it. And even if you
don't want to mention it in front of
people because your pain has been maybe
dismissed before many times and it's
difficult to be vulnerable for you.
Minimum mention it for yourself. You can
start with saying to yourself how you
truly feel even though you're still
laughing it off. I had a really really
good friends a few years ago and she
suddenly told me she doesn't want to be
anymore in touch with me and she kind of
broke up our friendship and I found it
that time so painful. I was so hurt but
I laughed it off. I brushed it off and I
was saying like it's fine, it's okay, I
wish you all the best. And recently I
run into her and I saw her coming up to
me, approaching me, trying to talk to
me, saying hello and wanting to start a
conversation. I said, "Hi." I said,
"Listen, you heard me. I am not
available anymore for giving you energy,
for giving you attention because you
hurt me a lot. And that was it. I said
what I felt and that was it. I left. And
to be honest, I'm so proud of myself
that I'm now being in a position where I
can honor my emotions and I can honor
how I feel and not anymore just laughing
it off. The next way you are losing
yourself without truly knowing it is
when you are trying to overexlain
yourself to people who would never
listen. Baby girl, people who don't
listen, people who don't understand you
or who don't want to understand you, you
have to let them go. Part of you
probably still believes that you can
make them understand how you feel. You
can make them understand and finally
treat you right. Finally make it up to
you. But baby girl, you have to
understand people who are not listening
to you or who do not want to listen to
you, they never will. And it's not about
your words. It's not the way you are
communicating your feelings. You are
communicating what you need. You are
communicating what you want. It's only
the other person that doesn't want to
understand you. You don't need to
convince anyone of anything. And when
you are with the right people, even if
they don't understand you, they are
trying to understand you. They are
coming to you. They are coming up to you
and asking you what you need, what do
you mean, if you can explain it again.
But people who do not want to understand
you, those are the people you will
always find yourself over explaining,
over talking, over giving your energy
because you feel like it's your mistake
to not talk correctly, to not
communicate correctly. But it's not,
baby girl. It's not your mistake. The
only mistake here you do is that you're
losing your connection by doing it in
the first place. You have to stop
overexplaining. You explain it once and
if someone doesn't understand and
doesn't come up to you wanting to
understand, this is a person you should
not waste your breath on to. The next
way you lose the connection with
yourself is when you're ignoring your
body's signal. Success has always been
tied to pushing our own limits, even
when it costs our well-being. So, you
might think, "Oh, when I'm pushing my
limits, I'm going to be successful. I'm
going to be a great mom. I'm going to be
a great partner. I'm going to be rich.
I'm going to be wealthy." But all you
are actually doing with pushing your
limits is disconnecting with yourself
and with who you truly are. When your
body feels physically tired, when your
eyes are twitching or about to fall,
about to close, and you're still forcing
yourself to do, to give, to work, to
push, you are not doing yourself a favor
in no way. Rest is so important. Rest is
not something you need to get approval
for. Rest is not something you do once
you have done your whole to-do list.
Once you have done everything, rest is
something you have to plan into your day
and you build your day around your rest.
Once you feel tired, you need to rest.
Once you feel sleepy, you need to go to
sleep. And with rest, I do not mean sit
back and scroll on your phone on social
media for hours. That's not rest and
that's not your body really relaxing.
With rest, I mean take a spa day. With
rest, I mean actual sleeping. Sleeping
is a
non-negotiable. The most successful
women, they prioritize their sleep. I'm
sleeping 9 hours every night. Doesn't
matter how late I'm going to sleep. I am
sleeping my 9 hours. And if I have to
wake up earlier, I'm going to bed
earlier. I know how crucial sleep is,
especially for us women. So, if you want
to do yourself a favor and if you want
to find your way back to yourself, you
have to also acknowledge your body's
needs. Not only your emotional needs,
also your body's needs. If you feel
tired, if you feel like resting, if you
feel like not doing anything, if you
feel like moving your body, if you feel
like not eating, if you feel like
eating, do it. Nobody can tell you what
you need to do. For example, when I was
younger, I was always being taught that
I have to finish my plate. I have to eat
everything that is on the plate. I am
not done with eating until the plate is
empty. And with that already, I learned
to not listen to my body's needs. And
then even in my adult years, I was
always feeling like I'm not done once
the plate is not empty. When someone
told me, "Oh, you lost weight. I think
you have to eat more." Then I thought,
"Oh, okay. I have to eat more." But to
be honest, my body feels best with less
weight on it. I am feeling best with
less food in my stomach. That's just how
I feel my best self. And nobody can tell
me differently. Maybe there is a period
in my life where I want more food, where
I want to feel more full, where I like
to eat a lot, and that's also fine. But
I learned to listen to my body. I
learned to listen to what my body needs
and not what somebody else told me to do
or not to do. The next way you are
losing yourself as a woman is when you
stay loyal to unspoken rules that do not
serve you. And with that I mean any
rules in your life. similar to the rules
of finishing up the plate or rules of
having to have a normal job or rules of
having to go to university. There are so
many rules in our life that we stay
loyal to even though it does not serve
us, even though it doesn't feel the
truth to us.
For example, I was feeling like I have
to study to get paid well. I have to
study to get a proper job. That's how I
was being brought up and that's how
everyone around me was thinking and was
living by those rules. So I was starting
to study law and while studying I was
feeling my worst self. I was feeling
drained. I was completely disconnected
to my body. I kept overeing, throwing
up, not eating, overeing again, throwing
up. I was developing an eating disorder,
depression, and I was deeply unhappy.
Even though I actually liked the topic
of law, I liked the information, but I
hated to go to university. I hated even
to go to high school. I had the same
problems in high school, but I was
taught that I have to do this way in
order to have a life. Like I didn't even
know there was another way to live. And
while being in that university, while
feeling miserable, I thought something
is wrong. It can't be that every time I
am back in my country, I am doing what I
am supposed to be doing. I feel
miserable. This is not the way I want to
live. So I stopped. I followed what my
heart wanted. And your heart will always
show you what you need and what you want
and what serves you. If something serves
you, you will bloom. You will thrive.
You will feel good. Even though maybe
sometimes it's exhausting to do
something or to achieve something,
that's normal. But you will always feel
like driving when it's serving you. But
when something is making you feel
smaller, when something is making you
feel like you cannot expand, you cannot
be yourself, you can not be your best
version of yourself, that's not for you.
It's just a question. How long do you
want to suffer? How long do you want to
follow rules that are not meant to
follow by you? Rules are here to give
you a direction. But it doesn't mean
that there is no other way. It doesn't
mean that every rule is set in stone and
it has to be like this. You have to make
your own rules. You have to experience
your own way. If you're not feeling
good, if you are feeling like you lost
yourself, start to question the systems
and rules you follow, whatever that is,
really dive deep. The systems of your
country, the rules of your family, the
rules of society, the rules of your
friends, the unspoken rules. Question
them and ask yourself if that really
serves you. And if it doesn't, do
yourself a favor and stop following
those rules. And if that's not being
accepted in your surroundings, then you
are in the wrong surrounding. When I was
living in Austria and I already had
started my social media presence, I felt
so suppressed. I felt so small doing
that because people were not yet there
with their mind. Social media was not
yet something big. Social media was not
yet something where people actually were
creating jobs out of it. So I was just
being belittled most of the time. People
didn't understand what I want to do and
it didn't make me drive in what I wanted
to do. So I knew also I had to move to
another place to be able to really drive
and expand in that field. So whatever it
is, question it and then ask yourself,
does it serve me or does it not serve
me? Does it serve what I truly want or
does it make me small and does it
prevent me to get where I truly want to
be? Always keep in mind that you are not
a chameleon. You don't need to change
your colors to fit to your
circumstances. You need to change your
circumstances to fit to you. If you are
a loud person, you have to have friends
who appreciate you being the loud
person. If you are more of an introvert
person, you have to find circumstances,
people who like you that way. You don't
need to force yourself to be loud, to
fit into any room. You don't need to
force yourself to be anything that you
are not because again, you are not a
chameleon. You are a precious woman. You
are a wonderful girl. You are a unique
person on earth that was put on this
earth to be exactly who you are. So stop
changing yourself. Stop being like a
chameleon changing your colors in order
to be liked from anyone. Another way we
are losing ourselves is when we are
pursuing the perfect woman. We are
pursuing to be the perfect mom, the
perfect businesswoman, the
perfect look, the perfect partner. We
are pursuing the perfect life. But who
says what's perfect? Who says that
having, for example, a family with two
kids, living in a house with a garden is
perfect? Maybe that's perfect for you.
Maybe that's not perfect for me. Who
says that having brown hair is perfect?
Who says that having blonde hair is
perfect? Short hair is perfect. It's
very subjective. Maybe for you perfect
is something else than for me. For
people in the US will be something else
perfect. Then for people in the UAE and
so on. You have to zoom out of that
perfectionism of that I want to have the
perfect life, the perfect me, the
perfect look, the perfect partner. And
you have to ask yourself what what is
perfect? Like what is actually perfect?
That's such an important question to ask
because what is perfect for you is the
question. What is the perfect for you?
And even though I think it's never good
to strive for
perfectionism, but if you minimum would
ask yourself what truly is perfect for
yourself and not for everyone else, then
you will strive for something that you
truly want, that you truly aspire to be
and not for something that someone else
tells you that is or should be perfect.
In this world there is nothing really
perfect or if you see it the other way
everything is perfect. Everything is
exactly perfectly aligned for you for
how it should be. But if we are striving
to be that perfect woman that society is
portraying us, we are going to lose
ourselves because we are striving for
something that we might are not. We are
not that perfect image and I do believe
we are being portrayed that image of the
perfect woman in order to lose
ourselves. Luckily now with social media
everything is more open. It's
more transparent and authentic than a
few years ago. We have more people with
actual influence in this society who are
showing us that we don't have to be
perfect. They are not perfect. They
don't have perfect looks. They don't
match into any scheme, into any
standards. Yet, they are still showing
to be happy, to be having a great life,
even though they don't fit in that
perfect profile. What I want to tell you
is that if you are still trying to fit
into that perfect woman image, it's like
filling water into a bucket with a hole.
It's never going to be enough and you
are going to lose yourself and society
wants you to do that because like that
you are being more easily controlled.
Right? If you are losing yourself, guess
what? Someone else can tell you who you
are and who you are not and what you
have to do and what you don't have to
do. People who know themselves, people
who are messy, people who are not
perfectl looking, people who are just
out there being themselves, people who
are being authentic and being proud of
being themselves. Those are the people
who are actually having a great life,
who are actually being happy, who are
actually living their perfect lives. And
those are the people you have to look up
to. You have to look up to people who
don't look perfect. You have to look up
to people who are not having that
perfect life of a perfect woman. What I
did was that I unfollowed all of the
women on Instagram that are giving me
that perfect life vibe because it made
me feel smaller. It made me feel a bit
miserable and it made me feel like I am
not enough. So I want you to unfollow
and unsubscribe everyone that is having
that perfect look, that perfect life,
that perfect everything that makes you
feel smaller than who you truly are. And
follow people who are not so perfect.
watch content from people who are not
having that perfect lifestyle, who are
still successful with what they are
doing. I want you to reframe and
rephrase your mindset around that and
create your own version of perfect and
ask yourself truly what is perfect for
me? What would my perfect life look
like? And yeah, that can also change.
that's maybe different now than 5 years
ago or in 10 years. But it's always
important to know what it actually looks
like for you so you will not lose
yourself and you will stop running after
trends, running after images that are
being presented to you. Another way I
want to talk about we are losing
ourselves is when we're putting our
dreams kind of on a shelf and we put it
there and we say that's not possible for
me. That's not available for me. I'm
just going for what's right now
available. What I'm doing it's okay
because my dreams are too big. Your
dreams are not too big. Your dreams are
showing up for you because you are meant
to reach them. And I can tell you one
insane example of my life that just
happened yesterday. So I when I was
younger, I always wanted to be a model.
I always wanted to run on a fashion
show. That was my biggest dream. That
was what I was striving for. But soon I
got to understand from society that I
was too short and I was not beautiful
enough to be a model. So I just put that
dream on a shelf and I thought okay
unfortunately that dream is not for me.
That's just for skinny tall girls that
are looking flawless. I put it there and
I focused on something else and whatever
I did in my life. And just since a few
months, I started again to follow my
passion, to follow my dream that was
first of all fashion and second of all
being on social media and doing
something to impact this world to help
women being the best version of
themselves. And while I was following my
passion, I was creating my own fashion
brand. I was just doing whatever I love
doing. Even though I didn't even earn $1
from it, I invested money. I invested
time and I absolutely enjoyed doing it.
But I completely forgot already about my
dream of being a model. Like that was
not anymore on my horizon. Then five
days ago, someone asked me, "Do you want
to come to present your brand on an
exhibition?" I thought, "Nice. Yeah,
maybe I can do some sales, get some more
brand awareness." I said, "Yes, when is
it and where is it?" It's in 4 days. I
thought, "Okay, 4 days. Not enough time
to prepare, but it's okay. I have some
pieces at home. I will present those
pieces." Two days later, they told me,
"It's not an exhibition. It's a fashion
show." And they already have eight
models. I just need to have eight
outfits, and if I want, I can run myself
as well. I thought that must be a joke,
right? I didn't take it seriously. I
thought maybe it's some small like
fashion walk in a restaurant or
something. And then yesterday I arrived
there and I saw it's an whole event with
a proper like fashion walk with a proper
stage. It was everything so good planned
and I was like how did I even end up
here? How did that even come into my
reality? How did I even created this
into my reality? And then I was just
going through the day. I was being on
the stage. I
was like I was not even realizing what
has happened until I got home and I saw
all the videos of my fashion show, of my
brand, of the clothes that I created
that I put on earth. I gave birth to
this collection and then I see myself
running on that fashion show and I'm
like, how how did that even come into my
life? And I tell you how. Because I
didn't give up. I kept pursuing my
dream. Even though I didn't pursue
anymore that dream of being a model, I
pursued something that was in that
range. I wanted to be in fashion. And I
wanted to be a person of public. I
wanted to be a person of influence. I
wanted to be a person that younger girls
look up to. And now I have almost 500k
followers on Instagram. I have just done
my first fashion show. I have just
experienced so many of my dreams within
just the past 3 to four months. And the
only way this happened was because I did
not ignore my dreams. I kept pursuing my
dreams and I said no to everything that
was not aligning with my dream. That's
why baby girl do not forget about your
dreams. Whatever you dream of, whatever
is in your imagination is for you here
to experience it in whatever way you are
going to experience it if you do not
stop to follow your passion. And that's
also a way to find back to yourself. Ask
yourself what were your dreams when you
were younger? What did you dream of
being and experiencing when you were 10
years old? What were your hobbies? What
were your dreams when you were younger?
And keep pursuing your dreams. Keep
pursuing what you loved doing when you
were younger. And believe me, trust me,
you will find back to that version of
you. I want you to know this journey of
finding your way back to yourself, back
to your home inside of you, it's a quiet
journey. And every small thing that puts
you in the center of your life, every
small moment of truth, every small
moment of nurturing yourself, of
self-care is one step closer back to
yourself. You are not lost. you are
still there. You just need to learn to
listen to yourself. Anyways guys, I hope
this could help. I hope I could
encourage you to start listening to
yourself again. Start asking yourself
what you actually need and who you
actually are and start to find your way
back home. Thank you so much for
watching. I love you so so much and I
see you in my next video. Bye-bye.